README.md, before:

# Flying Bear Ghost 5 (Marlin 2.0 Firmware) Red3D Edition


## ** Work in progress, also if this firmware is functional and printing every day here, try it at your own risk ** ##


## ** Important note ** ##
After first flash, go to Settings -> Eeprom set and run both "Revert" functions, then you can start to change parameters you want.

### Precompiled Firmwares
you can find precompiled firmware in /firmware_builds, one for the stock printer, the other one if you have replaced all drivers with TMC2209 (Standalone, No UART). For other pre-built firmware compile it yourself or ask.


### Changes (in random order)
* Default configured for 4xTMC2209 (STANDALONE; NO UART)
* Trinamic's UART mode disabled 
* FAN_MIN_PWM is set to 64. Now the model blower works from 1% to 100%, and not from ~ 20% to 100% as before.
* Enabled  diagonal movements when going home (XY)
* Increased resolution of multi-axis moves (ADAPTIVE_STEP_SMOOTHING)
* Enabled Linear Pressure Control and S-Curve Acceleration LIN_ADVANCE EXPERIMENTAL_SCURVE (Set to 0, to calibrate: [Linear Advance | Marlin Firmware](https://marlinfw.org/docs/features/lin_advance.html). (applicable with UART enabled)
* Increased RX_BUFFER_SIZE and set defautlr baudrate to 250000
* Enabled square wave stepping (SQUARE_WAVE_STEPPING)
* Disabled all Volumetric extrusion options
* Changed PID standard Values and enabled PID  for the Bed  (Remember to calibrate yours)
* BLTouch Disabled (But you can enable it, not tested yet)
* Changed pre-heating presets to PETG (235/75) and  PLA (210/60) and added in tool/more... menu
* Wifi is working with standard MksWifi.Bin (some troubles with file upload, still testing)
* Enabled resume printing after power outage (partially tested)
* 7 custom function configurable by Configuration.h
* Enabled EMERGENCY_PARSER to give priority to STOP/POWEROFF/etc signal from USB/Wifi interface

### New features
* 9 Point manual levelling with a redesigned interface
* Added menu voice to initialize user setting inside TFT35 
* A whole new graphics
* Touchscreen Calibration (as custom function n.4)
  
### Working on
* Automatic Mesh Bed Levelling (No BLtouch)
* New "home screen" (More functional)
* Replacing MksWifi with ESP3D by default
* Generate and print test directly on board (temperature tower, flow calibration, PID, steps, etc)

### Known problems
* missing "previous button" in page 2 in bed calibration point customization
* wifi  "upload & print" doesn't work always fine, if you have problem with the printer starting without pre-heating, please copy gcode files directly to the sd


### Bonus
* PSD file to export all custom images in one click (slices predefined, just edit and export in /custom_graphics/images)
* Custom assets conversion (png -> bin) done automatically when build building firmware (need php installed)


## PSD preview

<img src="docs/psd_preview.jpg" />




.
.
.







# Marlin 3D Printer Firmware

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
![GitHub Release Date](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=bugfix-2.0.x)](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/actions)

<img align="right" width=175 src="buildroot/share/pixmaps/logo/marlin-250.png" />

Additional documentation can be found at the [Marlin Home Page](https://marlinfw.org/).
Please test this firmware and let us know if it misbehaves in any way. Volunteers are standing by!

## Marlin 2.0 Bugfix Branch

__Not for production use. Use with caution!__

Marlin 2.0 takes this popular RepRap firmware to the next level by adding support for much faster 32-bit and ARM-based boards while improving support for 8-bit AVR boards. Read about Marlin's decision to use a "Hardware Abstraction Layer" below.

This branch is for patches to the latest 2.0.x release version. Periodically this branch will form the basis for the next minor 2.0.x release.

Download earlier versions of Marlin on the [Releases page](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/releases).

## Building Marlin 2.0

To build Marlin 2.0 you'll need [Arduino IDE 1.8.8 or newer](https://www.arduino.cc/en/main/software) or [PlatformIO](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/ide.html#platformio-ide). We've posted detailed instructions on [Building Marlin with Arduino](https://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/install_arduino.html) and [Building Marlin with PlatformIO for ReArm](https://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/install_rearm.html) (which applies well to other 32-bit boards).

## Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL)

Marlin 2.0 introduces a layer of abstraction so that all the existing high-level code can be built for 32-bit platforms while still retaining full 8-bit AVR compatibility. Retaining AVR compatibility and a single code-base is important to us, because we want to make sure that features and patches get as much testing and attention as possible, and that all platforms always benefit from the latest improvements.

### Current HALs

  #### AVR (8-bit)

  board|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Arduino AVR](https://www.arduino.cc/)|ATmega, ATTiny, etc.|16-20MHz|64-256k|2-16k|5V|no

  #### DUE

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Arduino Due](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/ArduinoDue), [RAMPS-FD](https://www.reprap.org/wiki/RAMPS-FD), etc.|[SAM3X8E ARM-Cortex M3](https://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/ATsam3x8e)|84MHz|512k|64+32k|3.3V|no

  #### ESP32

  board|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [ESP32](https://www.espressif.com/en/products/hardware/esp32/overview)|Tensilica Xtensa LX6|160-240MHz variants|---|---|3.3V|---

  #### LPC1768 / LPC1769

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Re-ARM](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1245051645/re-arm-for-ramps-simple-32-bit-upgrade)|[LPC1768 ARM-Cortex M3](https://www.nxp.com/products/microcontrollers-and-processors/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/lpc-cortex-m-mcus/lpc1700-cortex-m3/512kb-flash-64kb-sram-ethernet-usb-lqfp100-package:LPC1768FBD100)|100MHz|512k|32+16+16k|3.3-5V|no
  [MKS SBASE](https://reprap.org/forum/read.php?13,499322)|LPC1768 ARM-Cortex M3|100MHz|512k|32+16+16k|3.3-5V|no
  [Selena Compact](https://github.com/Ales2-k/Selena)|LPC1768 ARM-Cortex M3|100MHz|512k|32+16+16k|3.3-5V|no
  [Azteeg X5 GT](https://www.panucatt.com/azteeg_X5_GT_reprap_3d_printer_controller_p/ax5gt.htm)|LPC1769 ARM-Cortex M3|120MHz|512k|32+16+16k|3.3-5V|no
  [Smoothieboard](https://reprap.org/wiki/Smoothieboard)|LPC1769 ARM-Cortex M3|120MHz|512k|64k|3.3-5V|no

  #### SAMD51

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Adafruit Grand Central M4](https://www.adafruit.com/product/4064)|[SAMD51P20A ARM-Cortex M4](https://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/ATSAMD51P20A)|120MHz|1M|256k|3.3V|yes

  #### STM32F1

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Arduino STM32](https://github.com/rogerclarkmelbourne/Arduino_STM32)|[STM32F1](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f103.html) ARM-Cortex M3|72MHz|256-512k|48-64k|3.3V|no
  [Geeetech3D GTM32](https://github.com/Geeetech3D/Diagram/blob/master/Rostock301/Hardware_GTM32_PRO_VB.pdf)|[STM32F1](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f103.html) ARM-Cortex M3|72MHz|256-512k|48-64k|3.3V|no

  #### STM32F4

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [STEVAL-3DP001V1](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/steval-3dp001v1.html)|[STM32F401VE Arm-Cortex M4](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f401ve.html)|84MHz|512k|64+32k|3.3-5V|yes

  #### Teensy++ 2.0

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Teensy++ 2.0](https://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/AT90USB1286)|[AT90USB1286](https://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/AT90USB1286)|16MHz|128k|8k|5V|no

  #### Teensy 3.1 / 3.2

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Teensy 3.2](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy32.html)|[MK20DX256VLH7](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/NXP-Freescale/MK20DX256VLH7) ARM-Cortex M4|72MHz|256k|32k|3.3V-5V|yes

  #### Teensy 3.5 / 3.6

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Teensy 3.5](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy35.html)|[MK64FX512VMD12](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/NXP-Freescale/MK64FX512VMD12) ARM-Cortex M4|120MHz|512k|192k|3.3-5V|yes
  [Teensy 3.6](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy36.html)|[MK66FX1M0VMD18](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/NXP-Freescale/MK66FX1M0VMD18) ARM-Cortex M4|180MHz|1M|256k|3.3V|yes

  #### Teensy 4.0 / 4.1

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Teensy 4.0](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy40.html)|[IMXRT1062DVL6A](https://www.mouser.com/new/nxp-semiconductors/nxp-imx-rt1060-crossover-processor/) ARM-Cortex M7|600MHz|1M|2M|3.3V|yes
  [Teensy 4.1](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy41.html)|[IMXRT1062DVJ6A](https://www.mouser.com/new/nxp-semiconductors/nxp-imx-rt1060-crossover-processor/) ARM-Cortex M7|600MHz|1M|2M|3.3V|yes

## Submitting Patches

Proposed patches should be submitted as a Pull Request against the ([bugfix-2.0.x](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/tree/bugfix-2.0.x)) branch.

- This branch is for fixing bugs and integrating any new features for the duration of the Marlin 2.0.x life-cycle.
- Follow the [Coding Standards](https://marlinfw.org/docs/development/coding_standards.html) to gain points with the maintainers.
- Please submit Feature Requests and Bug Reports to the [Issue Queue](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/issues/new/choose). Support resources are also listed there.
- Whenever you add new features, be sure to add tests to `buildroot/tests` and then run your tests locally, if possible.
  - It's optional: Running all the tests on Windows might take a long time, and they will run anyway on GitHub.
  - If you're running the tests on Linux (or on WSL with the code on a Linux volume) the speed is much faster.
  - You can use `make tests-all-local` or `make tests-single-local TEST_TARGET=...`.
  - If you prefer Docker you can use `make tests-all-local-docker` or `make tests-all-local-docker TEST_TARGET=...`.

### [RepRap.org Wiki Page](https://reprap.org/wiki/Marlin)

## Credits

The current Marlin dev team consists of:

 - Scott Lahteine [[@thinkyhead](https://github.com/thinkyhead)] - USA &nbsp; [Donate](https://www.thinkyhead.com/donate-to-marlin) / Flattr: [![Flattr Scott](https://api.flattr.com/button/flattr-badge-small.png)](https://flattr.com/submit/auto?user_id=thinkyhead&url=https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin&title=Marlin&language=&tags=github&category=software)
 - Roxanne Neufeld [[@Roxy-3D](https://github.com/Roxy-3D)] - USA
 - Chris Pepper [[@p3p](https://github.com/p3p)] - UK
 - Bob Kuhn [[@Bob-the-Kuhn](https://github.com/Bob-the-Kuhn)] - USA
 - João Brazio [[@jbrazio](https://github.com/jbrazio)] - Portugal
 - Erik van der Zalm [[@ErikZalm](https://github.com/ErikZalm)] - Netherlands &nbsp; [![Flattr Erik](https://api.flattr.com/button/flattr-badge-large.png)](https://flattr.com/submit/auto?user_id=ErikZalm&url=https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin&title=Marlin&language=&tags=github&category=software)

## License

Marlin is published under the [GPL license](/LICENSE) because we believe in open development. The GPL comes with both rights and obligations. Whether you use Marlin firmware as the driver for your open or closed-source product, you must keep Marlin open, and you must provide your compatible Marlin source code to end users upon request. The most straightforward way to comply with the Marlin license is to make a fork of Marlin on Github, perform your modifications, and direct users to your modified fork.

While we can't prevent the use of this code in products (3D printers, CNC, etc.) that are closed source or crippled by a patent, we would prefer that you choose another firmware or, better yet, make your own.

Commit message:

added note for compatibility with previous models

README.md, after:

# Flying Bear Ghost 5 (Marlin 2.0 Firmware) Red3D Edition


## ** Work in progress, also if this firmware is functional and printing every day here, try it at your own risk ** ##


## ** Important note ** ##
After first flash, go to Settings -> Eeprom set and run both "Revert" functions, then you can start to change parameters you want.

## Compatibility
Personally tested on Ghost 5, but reported to work also on 4 and 4s models

### Precompiled Firmwares
you can find precompiled firmware in /firmware_builds, one for the stock printer, the other one if you have replaced all drivers with TMC2209 (Standalone, No UART). For other pre-built firmware compile it yourself or ask.


### Changes (in random order)
* Default configured for 4xTMC2209 (STANDALONE; NO UART)
* Trinamic's UART mode disabled 
* FAN_MIN_PWM is set to 64. Now the model blower works from 1% to 100%, and not from ~ 20% to 100% as before.
* Enabled  diagonal movements when going home (XY)
* Increased resolution of multi-axis moves (ADAPTIVE_STEP_SMOOTHING)
* Enabled Linear Pressure Control and S-Curve Acceleration LIN_ADVANCE EXPERIMENTAL_SCURVE (Set to 0, to calibrate: [Linear Advance | Marlin Firmware](https://marlinfw.org/docs/features/lin_advance.html). (applicable with UART enabled)
* Increased RX_BUFFER_SIZE and set defautlr baudrate to 250000
* Enabled square wave stepping (SQUARE_WAVE_STEPPING)
* Disabled all Volumetric extrusion options
* Changed PID standard Values and enabled PID  for the Bed  (Remember to calibrate yours)
* BLTouch Disabled (But you can enable it, not tested yet)
* Changed pre-heating presets to PETG (235/75) and  PLA (210/60) and added in tool/more... menu
* Wifi is working with standard MksWifi.Bin (some troubles with file upload, still testing)
* Enabled resume printing after power outage (partially tested)
* 7 custom function configurable by Configuration.h
* Enabled EMERGENCY_PARSER to give priority to STOP/POWEROFF/etc signal from USB/Wifi interface

### New features
* 9 Point manual levelling with a redesigned interface
* Added menu voice to initialize user setting inside TFT35 
* A whole new graphics
* Touchscreen Calibration (as custom function n.4)
  
### Working on
* Automatic Mesh Bed Levelling (No BLtouch)
* New "home screen" (More functional)
* Replacing MksWifi with ESP3D by default
* Generate and print test directly on board (temperature tower, flow calibration, PID, steps, etc)

### Known problems
* missing "previous button" in page 2 in bed calibration point customization
* wifi  "upload & print" doesn't work always fine, if you have problem with the printer starting without pre-heating, please copy gcode files directly to the sd


### Bonus
* PSD file to export all custom images in one click (slices predefined, just edit and export in /custom_graphics/images)
* Custom assets conversion (png -> bin) done automatically when build building firmware (need php installed)


## PSD preview

<img src="docs/psd_preview.jpg" />




.
.
.







# Marlin 3D Printer Firmware

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
![GitHub Release Date](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=bugfix-2.0.x)](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/actions)

<img align="right" width=175 src="buildroot/share/pixmaps/logo/marlin-250.png" />

Additional documentation can be found at the [Marlin Home Page](https://marlinfw.org/).
Please test this firmware and let us know if it misbehaves in any way. Volunteers are standing by!

## Marlin 2.0 Bugfix Branch

__Not for production use. Use with caution!__

Marlin 2.0 takes this popular RepRap firmware to the next level by adding support for much faster 32-bit and ARM-based boards while improving support for 8-bit AVR boards. Read about Marlin's decision to use a "Hardware Abstraction Layer" below.

This branch is for patches to the latest 2.0.x release version. Periodically this branch will form the basis for the next minor 2.0.x release.

Download earlier versions of Marlin on the [Releases page](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/releases).

## Building Marlin 2.0

To build Marlin 2.0 you'll need [Arduino IDE 1.8.8 or newer](https://www.arduino.cc/en/main/software) or [PlatformIO](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/ide.html#platformio-ide). We've posted detailed instructions on [Building Marlin with Arduino](https://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/install_arduino.html) and [Building Marlin with PlatformIO for ReArm](https://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/install_rearm.html) (which applies well to other 32-bit boards).

## Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL)

Marlin 2.0 introduces a layer of abstraction so that all the existing high-level code can be built for 32-bit platforms while still retaining full 8-bit AVR compatibility. Retaining AVR compatibility and a single code-base is important to us, because we want to make sure that features and patches get as much testing and attention as possible, and that all platforms always benefit from the latest improvements.

### Current HALs

  #### AVR (8-bit)

  board|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Arduino AVR](https://www.arduino.cc/)|ATmega, ATTiny, etc.|16-20MHz|64-256k|2-16k|5V|no

  #### DUE

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Arduino Due](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/ArduinoDue), [RAMPS-FD](https://www.reprap.org/wiki/RAMPS-FD), etc.|[SAM3X8E ARM-Cortex M3](https://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/ATsam3x8e)|84MHz|512k|64+32k|3.3V|no

  #### ESP32

  board|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [ESP32](https://www.espressif.com/en/products/hardware/esp32/overview)|Tensilica Xtensa LX6|160-240MHz variants|---|---|3.3V|---

  #### LPC1768 / LPC1769

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Re-ARM](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1245051645/re-arm-for-ramps-simple-32-bit-upgrade)|[LPC1768 ARM-Cortex M3](https://www.nxp.com/products/microcontrollers-and-processors/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/lpc-cortex-m-mcus/lpc1700-cortex-m3/512kb-flash-64kb-sram-ethernet-usb-lqfp100-package:LPC1768FBD100)|100MHz|512k|32+16+16k|3.3-5V|no
  [MKS SBASE](https://reprap.org/forum/read.php?13,499322)|LPC1768 ARM-Cortex M3|100MHz|512k|32+16+16k|3.3-5V|no
  [Selena Compact](https://github.com/Ales2-k/Selena)|LPC1768 ARM-Cortex M3|100MHz|512k|32+16+16k|3.3-5V|no
  [Azteeg X5 GT](https://www.panucatt.com/azteeg_X5_GT_reprap_3d_printer_controller_p/ax5gt.htm)|LPC1769 ARM-Cortex M3|120MHz|512k|32+16+16k|3.3-5V|no
  [Smoothieboard](https://reprap.org/wiki/Smoothieboard)|LPC1769 ARM-Cortex M3|120MHz|512k|64k|3.3-5V|no

  #### SAMD51

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Adafruit Grand Central M4](https://www.adafruit.com/product/4064)|[SAMD51P20A ARM-Cortex M4](https://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/ATSAMD51P20A)|120MHz|1M|256k|3.3V|yes

  #### STM32F1

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Arduino STM32](https://github.com/rogerclarkmelbourne/Arduino_STM32)|[STM32F1](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f103.html) ARM-Cortex M3|72MHz|256-512k|48-64k|3.3V|no
  [Geeetech3D GTM32](https://github.com/Geeetech3D/Diagram/blob/master/Rostock301/Hardware_GTM32_PRO_VB.pdf)|[STM32F1](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f103.html) ARM-Cortex M3|72MHz|256-512k|48-64k|3.3V|no

  #### STM32F4

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [STEVAL-3DP001V1](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/steval-3dp001v1.html)|[STM32F401VE Arm-Cortex M4](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f401ve.html)|84MHz|512k|64+32k|3.3-5V|yes

  #### Teensy++ 2.0

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Teensy++ 2.0](https://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/AT90USB1286)|[AT90USB1286](https://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/AT90USB1286)|16MHz|128k|8k|5V|no

  #### Teensy 3.1 / 3.2

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Teensy 3.2](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy32.html)|[MK20DX256VLH7](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/NXP-Freescale/MK20DX256VLH7) ARM-Cortex M4|72MHz|256k|32k|3.3V-5V|yes

  #### Teensy 3.5 / 3.6

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Teensy 3.5](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy35.html)|[MK64FX512VMD12](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/NXP-Freescale/MK64FX512VMD12) ARM-Cortex M4|120MHz|512k|192k|3.3-5V|yes
  [Teensy 3.6](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy36.html)|[MK66FX1M0VMD18](https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/NXP-Freescale/MK66FX1M0VMD18) ARM-Cortex M4|180MHz|1M|256k|3.3V|yes

  #### Teensy 4.0 / 4.1

  boards|processor|speed|flash|sram|logic|fpu
  ----|---------|-----|-----|----|-----|---
  [Teensy 4.0](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy40.html)|[IMXRT1062DVL6A](https://www.mouser.com/new/nxp-semiconductors/nxp-imx-rt1060-crossover-processor/) ARM-Cortex M7|600MHz|1M|2M|3.3V|yes
  [Teensy 4.1](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy41.html)|[IMXRT1062DVJ6A](https://www.mouser.com/new/nxp-semiconductors/nxp-imx-rt1060-crossover-processor/) ARM-Cortex M7|600MHz|1M|2M|3.3V|yes

## Submitting Patches

Proposed patches should be submitted as a Pull Request against the ([bugfix-2.0.x](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/tree/bugfix-2.0.x)) branch.

- This branch is for fixing bugs and integrating any new features for the duration of the Marlin 2.0.x life-cycle.
- Follow the [Coding Standards](https://marlinfw.org/docs/development/coding_standards.html) to gain points with the maintainers.
- Please submit Feature Requests and Bug Reports to the [Issue Queue](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/issues/new/choose). Support resources are also listed there.
- Whenever you add new features, be sure to add tests to `buildroot/tests` and then run your tests locally, if possible.
  - It's optional: Running all the tests on Windows might take a long time, and they will run anyway on GitHub.
  - If you're running the tests on Linux (or on WSL with the code on a Linux volume) the speed is much faster.
  - You can use `make tests-all-local` or `make tests-single-local TEST_TARGET=...`.
  - If you prefer Docker you can use `make tests-all-local-docker` or `make tests-all-local-docker TEST_TARGET=...`.

### [RepRap.org Wiki Page](https://reprap.org/wiki/Marlin)

## Credits

The current Marlin dev team consists of:

 - Scott Lahteine [[@thinkyhead](https://github.com/thinkyhead)] - USA &nbsp; [Donate](https://www.thinkyhead.com/donate-to-marlin) / Flattr: [![Flattr Scott](https://api.flattr.com/button/flattr-badge-small.png)](https://flattr.com/submit/auto?user_id=thinkyhead&url=https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin&title=Marlin&language=&tags=github&category=software)
 - Roxanne Neufeld [[@Roxy-3D](https://github.com/Roxy-3D)] - USA
 - Chris Pepper [[@p3p](https://github.com/p3p)] - UK
 - Bob Kuhn [[@Bob-the-Kuhn](https://github.com/Bob-the-Kuhn)] - USA
 - João Brazio [[@jbrazio](https://github.com/jbrazio)] - Portugal
 - Erik van der Zalm [[@ErikZalm](https://github.com/ErikZalm)] - Netherlands &nbsp; [![Flattr Erik](https://api.flattr.com/button/flattr-badge-large.png)](https://flattr.com/submit/auto?user_id=ErikZalm&url=https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin&title=Marlin&language=&tags=github&category=software)

## License

Marlin is published under the [GPL license](/LICENSE) because we believe in open development. The GPL comes with both rights and obligations. Whether you use Marlin firmware as the driver for your open or closed-source product, you must keep Marlin open, and you must provide your compatible Marlin source code to end users upon request. The most straightforward way to comply with the Marlin license is to make a fork of Marlin on Github, perform your modifications, and direct users to your modified fork.

While we can't prevent the use of this code in products (3D printers, CNC, etc.) that are closed source or crippled by a patent, we would prefer that you choose another firmware or, better yet, make your own.
